Jordan is hosting an emergency
conference to coordinate the
humanitarian response to Israel's war on
Gaza US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is expected to attend and he's
likely to hold talks with several
Regional leaders including Jordan and
Egypt un Secretary General Antonio geles
says more humanitarian aid needs to be
allowed
in all available routs into Gaza must be
operational and the land routs are
absolutely
crucial I also welcome all coordinated
efforts to fully operationalize the
mechanism to facilitate Aid into Gaza as
mandated by Security Council resolution
2720 the international humanitarian
response in RDA has been severely
lacking with the delivery of Aid facing
obstacles at every level humanitarian
access cannot wait for a ceasefire and
cannot be subject to the political
agendas of any
party you're watching oo we're bringing
you live coverage of uh the conference
that's being held in Jordan it's an
emergency International Conference
working on the humanitarian response to
Israel's war on Gaza that was a round of
applause that was just following a
statement that had been made by US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin he
said that the most important element of
uh most important stage to be reached
next was an immediate and uh com
comprehensive ceasefire he was outlining
the phases of the ceasefire that had
been put forward by US President Biden
and subsequently agreed on by the United
Nations security Council he said however
that one thing stands in the way of this
deal happening it is Hamas he then
called on all the members gathered
around the uh the tables there to get
Hamas to take uh to take the deal he
then went on to say there was going to
be a further $44 million that was going
to be pledged by the United States to
help Palestinians in Gaza and he
outlined some uh stories of three
children uh in Gaza who had been injured
and had lost family members as a result
uh of the Israeli action in Gaza now we
can go to Maran bashara he's Al jazer
senior political analyst he's joining us
from Paris Maran I don't know how much
of uh um Anthony blink's statement you
were able to hear but I actually want to
take you back to something that was said
by King Abdullah of Jordan Jordan of
course one of the hosts of this
conference right at the start of this
conference he said the people of Gaza
are not looking for us to us for
platitudes and speeches they need action
and in many ways that sums up exactly
the problem that this conference is
going to face there's a lot of good
intention if you like making it happen
is going to be very
difficult yes I think he is correct but
nonetheless that's what we have a whole
bunch of speeches and of course a bit
too little and a bit too late for the
people of Gaza most of those who are
there in Aman of course have uh done not
that much for the people of Gaza
certainly they didn't do enough to stop
the War uh on
Gaza uh but he's also correct to say
that uh humanitarian Aid should not be
conditional to a
ceasefire that uh in his words
Aid should start flowing in medical and
other humanitarian Aid regardless of
what date uh the actual official
ceasefire is reached so in a sense the
necessity to end the war the necessity
to uh save uh the millions in Gaza from
the um breath of Israeli War is um you
know never more important than today yes
I did hear Rob I did hear the Secretary
of State of course as usual rolling my
eyes endlessly I'm worried about my eyes
as I roll them endlessly listening to
Blink there's something surrealistic
about listening to an American president
uh recounting the disaster that Gaza has
become the destruction of hospitals and
schools the death of people entire
families uh as if they were not killed
by American ammunition as if the United
States did not block every attempt at an
immediate and permanent ceasefire the
past eight months but be that as it may
now we all learned the lesson once again
that when it comes to America it's
either America's way or the highway that
in as far as America is concerned
America might is right and everything
else is wrong and hence until America
pass its own resolution taking in
consideration a good number of um points
by other countries including the
algerians and apparently the Russians
and the Chinese the resolution has
passed and Hamas has welcomed it and
yet the Secretary of State continues to
emphasize that now it's only up to Hamas
and that everyone needs to pressure
Hamas to accept a ceasefire when in fact
in fact not according to my opinion
Hamas and others in Gaza have died for a
ceasefire they have always been for the
past eight months dying for a ceasefire
to take place so if anything the people
in Gaza including Hamas want a ceasefire
more than anyone else including the
United States and
Israel the response that from Israel to
the ruling by the UN Security Council
was significantly muted compared to what
we've seen in the past uh previous uh
occasions Israel has been very very
strongly worded uh in in its response to
the way that uh some of those
resolutions have been put forward before
they've been uh voted on and only two of
them have passed of course um given the
fact that this is a more muted response
is that a reflection of the fact that
this is sponsored by the US does that
kind of slightly box in the Israeli
government when it comes to the way that
it is going to be able to deal with uh
or respond to this
resolution well now that the proposal of
a
ceasefire uh leading eventually to a
permanent ceasefire in the words blink
has been adopted by the security Council
enshrined uh in international law the
Israelis have uh less wiggle room than
before and the Americans have indeed
succeeded in boxing their Ally
uh into a bit of a corner now having
said that being a student of the history
of this conflict and of Israel's
American attitude towards it we know
that the Israelis have once and
again rejected uh or somehow
bypassed International including un
Security Council resolutions in the past
and I think they will probably try to do
that again it will be up to the
Americans to discipline them but judging
from blinken's per usual excuses for
Israel he is once again putting the
omness on Hamas not on Israel when the
Israelis wouldn't even come publicly and
embrace the American proposal and the UN
Security Council resolution and they
haven't done so because they actually
don't like it they certainly as our
correspondent said um they don't like at
least the third phase of it which
actually calls for total withdrawals of
Israel from the the uh occupied
territories of Gaza and uh for
eventually the establishment of two
states with a Palestinian state in the
West Bank and Gaza these things are not
to the liking of this Israeli government
I think we will face um some major
turbulences within the Israeli Poli in
the days and weeks to come m as always
thank you very much M Bashar Al jair's
senior political
analyst make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get latest news from Al jazer